               CUWI - Corpus Users' Web Interface
               ----------------------------------

[[ WARNING: This version is unstable with newer CWB packages due to
CWB::CQP encoding mismatches. If you have failures with perl
t/05_result.t, try using an older non-developer version of CWB for the
moment. ]]

[[ WARNING: In additon the latest versions of CUWI have changed the format and
syntax of the configuration file (from .json to perl-formatted
.conf). Please consult the documentation. Most installations will be
able to simply change the formatting, but some of the more advanced
features (primaraly corpus groups etc.) now have a different
syntax. Please consider the configuration file syntax API to be in
beta stage. Suggestions are welcome. ]]

CUWI is a full-featured web front-end for corpora prepared with CWB -
the IMS Corpus WorkBench (http://cwb.sourceforge.net/). It uses its
own back-end layer, CWB::Model. CWB::Modle is a CWB registry, corpus,
info and query model layer which uses the CWB::CQP module and a
background cqp query processor to query corpora.

CUWI has no dependencies on CWB::CL or other C-level bindings to CWB,
and is therefore relatively version agnostic as regards to CWB - is
should work with any cqp no later than version 2.0.0.

CUWI uses CWB::Model to parse available registry files and present the
user with a list of available corpora. For each corpus, a suitable
search form is used, listing attributes, alignments and other
options. It supports KWIC output, sentences, paragraphs, frequencies
and more.

CWB::Model and related modules require Mojolicious (they are build on
Mojo infrastructure), but can be used independently in your scripts and
do not imply a web interface per se.

CUWI's web interface is build using Mojolicious and thus includes
features such as templating, template customization for your site,
internationalization, deployment in most possible web environments
(including production-grade stand-alone perl server) etc. See
http://mojolicio.us/ for more info.


Feature highlights:
-------------------

* Queries can be specified in a simplified globbing expression using
  form options, full CQP query language or a combination thereof.

* Clean encoding support for different corpus encodings (fully
  functional regular expressions for UTF-8 require a recent CWB
  distribution).

* Result navigation: contextual links allow the user to see a larger
  context for each hit or to perform a search for a specific
  combination in a frequency table.

* Tool-tips and informational blocks are extracted from special-format
  information in corpus registry info files when available and are
  used to help the user throughout the interface.

* Statistics and, optionally, attribute frequency lists are presented
  for each corpus as extracted using CWB tools.

* Query results are available in a number of formats, where new ones
  can be easily added with user templates or additional plugins at
  your leisure.

* Welcome message, CSS and HTML layout can all be adapted to your site
  using config files and template overrides.

* Config files can be used to group corpora and specify different
  behaviour for individual copora.

* Virtual corpora: you can configure CUWI to present a corpus differently,
  or query and present multiple corpora as a single large corpus in different
  ways.

A number of additional features are in the pipeline:

 * frequencies and collocations using cwb-corpus-scan

 * support for asynchronous queries (better performance with high loads)

 * support for sub-corpora and chained queries

 * graphical aids in frequency tables

 * many more ease-of use and advanced features

 * better programming API and better documentation for CWB::Model 


Additional info:
----------------

Documentation can be found in CWB::CUWI and CWB::Model pods or man pages.

For deployment information, see Mojolicious::Guides::Cookbook and
INSTALL. Full documentation is in CWB::CUWI::Administration.

For customization, see Mojolicious::Guides::Rendering and cuwi help inflate.

See also: cuwi generate help, cuwi help daemon, Mojo::Server::Hypnotoad
and Mojolicious or http://mojolicio.us/.
